DryLab5, 21062023 

General Updates 

    ScFv modelling is complete! 

    There's some docking issues (need more computational power) 

    Start making presentations and dumping things into ReadMEs 

    Pharmacokinetics, general updates 

Major Questions: 

    How much IL8 is too much? 

    Documents uploaded on IL8 levels in various endometriosis stages 

    Another on IL8 concentration in various parts of the body 

    How much removal efficiency does our anti-IL8 scfv have? 

    Not enough data on this, probably will reframe the question 

    What is the efficiency of production and ejection of scfv from endometrial cells? 

    What is the translation efficiency of our mRNA? 

    What is the efficiency with which LNPs are taken up by cells? 

    What concentration of LNPs do we require in the peritonium? 

    What is the general behaviour of LNPs with respect to pharmacokinetics? 

Objectives to complete by 24/06/2023 (Saturday): 

    Mrigank: Docking+ELISA model 

    Anwesha: To find quantifiable parameter for diagnosis of different stages of disease (~Q1) 

    Sheersh: Read through paper on mRNA-LNP delivery systems+mRNA Translation Efficiency+Production and ejection of scFv from EM. cells (~Q3 and Q4) 

    Sanika: mRNA Translation Efficiency+Production and ejection of scFv from EM. cells (~Q3 and Q4) 

    Tarushri: Alternate mRNA transfection methods (~Q5) 

    Vashya: Alternate mRNA transfection methods (~Q5) 

    Sanjana: Read up on what we're doing and endometriosis in general. 

    Saahiti: Read up on what we're doing and endometriosis in general. 

Q6 and Q7 can be worked on if wished to. 