Meeting6, 10032023 

Exosomes_Endometriosis 

    General outline/presentation uploaded on Teams. 

    Endometriosis is hormonally affected but exact mechanism isn't known. 

    We basically aim to avoid surgical methods to excise endometrial tissues, due to obvious risks. 

    Also, the hormone-based treatment enhances possibility of cancer, so we wish to avoid that. 

What we want to use? 

    miRNA-503 needs to be introduced into endometrial tissue. 

    The EDA-specific epitope of F8 (SIP format) is planned to be used as the targeting molecule. 

    We plan to attach the antibody to the lamp-2b protein on the surface of exosomes (@Aditya @Mayank check this please) 

    We plan to transfect HEK-293t cells with 2 plasmids. 

    Again, all relevant, specific resources are on Teams. 

Pointers: 

    Plan seems like it'll take longer than a year. 

    Check out half-life of angiogenesis (? check this) 

    Check out level of study carried out by the NJU team. 

    Do background study for the dry lab 

    Go through last year's iGEM Criteria 

    Consult 4-5th years to know who further to refer to 

    Don't elaborate the entire idea to Profs, they might steal it (They got better resources, so they'll complete it too) 

Question: Are there people transfecting cells with 2 plasmids? 

    Yes, profs at IISc Do it apparently. 

Question: Have wet lab steps been done before? 

    Yes, most steps of the plan have been carried out before for very similar biomolecules. 

Question: What do you plan to do for the Dry Lab? 

    Figure specifics out for this. 

Question: How big is it? 

    Around 5kDa 

Question: While transfecting, do you want it to be extra chromosal or a stable line? 

    Not sure, right now 

    Stable lines are better as they're more efficient, but again, that's more difficult. 

Microplastic Degradation 

    Again, the outline and presentation is available on Teams. 

    Choice of microplastics is very important as the choice of microorganism will be based on that. 

    Specifics need to be figured out over time. 

    Plan to work with things in water, need to design an assay. 

Things to be done: 

    Select microplastic target (PE or PETs are our first options) 

    Collection of samples and aggregation 

    Wet lab: 

    Prepare microplastic culture 

    Design assay to get desired by-products 

    Analysis of by-products obtained 

    A rough outline of how we'll design an assay presented in the PPT 

    Further, assays and a pictorial representation of the microplastic degradation was presented too. 

Question: Do you have any papers where the exact degradation is shown to happen. It could be just a surface chemical reaction? 

    Potential by-products are listed in the PPT, and 

Question: Size of microplastics? 

    Need to see 

Question: Extracellular or cellular action? 

    The process is extracellular 

Question: So then why use synbio? Just use cell-free systems? 

    We need the cell-based system to get it in a microbial system- 

Question: What exactly are we assaying here? 

    The possible by-products of the degradation. 

Question: So the people you cite purify bacteria then carry out the assay? 

    No, they take a soil sample and then carry out the assay. 

    You see which bacteria carries out the most amount of degradation (Nitrosomonas apparently is most active) 

    Then they did enzyme assay (how much of which enzyme is being produced) 

Pointers: 

    Use microspheres that are fluorescent made of microplastics to check if the degradation exactly occurs. See if the fluorescence vanishes and also record the time line. 

    Go through previous iGEM projects on microplastics. 

    Make a list of which enzyme degrades which microplastic and is present in which bacteria. 

    Look at more papers to check if the degradation actually occurs. 

    Start talking to profs and the author of the assay. 

    Start looking at specifics 

    Record and figure out a timeline for the entire project 

    Also, figure out what exactly is the 'synbio' part is. 

Also, there are some fungal enzymes that we could look into as there are no assays done on those. 

General comments: Make sure the synbio part is stronger and more conspicuous than other fields, for examples biochemical engineering or something. 

Biofilms: 

    Bruh, the summary and presentation is on Teams, again. 

General points about the project: 

    Quorum sensing and EPS matrix are identifiable features of biofilms. 

    Possible ways: 

    Inhibiting Quorum sensing: 

    Tried out by an iGEM team in 2018 

    Prevent formation of biofilms that may make pathogens 

    Destroying EPS-Matrix: 

    This is to attack bad biofilms 

    Use of sheer stress or by providing some sort of sensor 

    Inhibiting Proteins involved in other steps 

    Or, Targeting Water Channels 

    Suggestion: Don't try to focus on this idea please. 

    Positive applications: 

    Some methods listed out 

    Enzyme production and Delivery 

    There are issues in this approach, as we noticed 

Question: What kind of implants are you looking into? 

    Previous Pasteur project focused on orthopaedic implants, we're still figuring it out 

Question: Materials of implants? 

    Present in a slide in PPT 

Question: Is putting stuff into your body allowed? 

    Yes, as long as it's safe 

Question: Which bacteria do you plant to use? 

    E. coli 

Question: Did anyone make any nanoparticles to counter biofilms? 

    There's a paper on using gold particles to make biofilms disperse 

Pointers: 

    Make sure to have a kill-switch that kills bacteria if it starts acting weird. 

    Talk to professors, fast 

Breast Cancer Diagnosis 

    Uses aptamers. 

    Details uploaded on Teams 

    Ex-50T is the most viable aptamer 

    Further uses electrochemical methods to diagnose Cancer. 

    IISER Mohali Team has worked on this project in a previous iGEM project. 

Pointer: 

    Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy Labs are probably not present in IISc. 

    Find out if someone in IISc does it. 

    Figure out exactly how you'll carry it out: in vitro or in vivo and relevant protocols 

    Check novelty of the idea 

General Pointers: 

    Next Meeting onwards try to figure out a timeline for each of your projects 

    Catch hold of a peep to keep an eye over your meetings and ideas 

    Finalize your idea by 

    Warning for Team Leaders: 

    You don't get any credits 

    Too much workload 

    All of it is administrative work 

    Will be the Point of Contact with most people 

    Will spend most time looking at management, people, finances, team etc. 

    All the bad-effects get to the leader without any of the goodies 

    Get a PI soon after finalizing idea 

    Don't take published stuff at face value, nor previous iGEM projects 

    Don't mumble while presenting bruh, it's difficult to take notes 