Meeting5, 07032023 

Endometriosis (updates are in a separate, more thorough doc): 

    We'll prolly use miRNA-503 instead of our initially considered miRNA(214?) 

    Does everything we want to (look at uploaded docs for details) 

    Doesn't unnecessarily/adversely affect other things 

    Cell line of choice: HEk293t 

    For transfection, we'll prolly use lipofectamine 

    Potential marker: EDA specific epitope of F8 antibody 

Pros and Cons of different approaches (SLNs and Exosomes) listed in the other doc. 

    Greatest con of SLN is attaching the large 40kDa protein to the lipid. 

    Protein also should not have high positive charge (it causes issues in association) 

    Cons (challenges?) of exosome are mainly the 2 plasmids, using the mammalian cell lines and so on. 

We don't really know if one method is better/more efficient than the other. Need to refer to profs for that. 

Possible issues: There's some doubts regarding lipofection and lamp proteins that need to be resolved. 

Biofilms: 

General Intro: 

    Bacteria gets attached to surfaces, and eventually changes its genetic composition, and forms an EPS-matrix. 

    Quorum sensing: Informs other bacteria that a biofilm has been formed. 

    Refer to uploaded docs/ppt for a general outline. 

Inhibiting quorum sensing has already been utilised in a 2018 iGEM project to inhibit biofilm formation. We can build on this. Relevant link will be uploaded. 

    While the above project initially appeared similar, going a few steps back has revealed alternate pathways to utilise biofilms. 

    Pros include the fact that biofilms neither fully permeable nor full impermeable. This semi-permeability allows various different components to be introduced into the bio-film. 

    Can allow controlled release of desired substances into the body. 

    Kaushik Chatterjee and Aloke Kumar work on biofilms, so potential PI. 

    Rachit Agrawal, Siddhart Jhunjhunwala, Bikramjit Basu, Subinoy Roy are other relevant profs. 

    Biofilms used generally to stop harmful microbes in plants. 

    Docs uploaded, list of potential candidates for bacteria present too. 

Basic method/plan: 

    Develop a bacterial biofilm outside the body 

    Then, inject the biofilm covered biomaterial into the body. 

    The biofilm gives our microbe an edge over other microbes, allowing it to release, let's say anti-biotics into the body. 

Question: Is injecting bacteria allowed? 

    Yes, as long as it doesn't kill people. 

Question: What if biofilms already exist? 

    Biofilms don't generate spontaneously. So, we have to deliberately cause it to form. 

Drug Delivery using Biofilms: 

    Lipid signal molecules being transported through the biofilm. It basically uses biosensors to sense concentration of materials outside the biofilm. 

    So it releases a drug only when concentration reaches a certain threshold. 

    We can use this to create implants that give a controlled, continuous production of desired substances into the body. 

    ALSO: Check if this feedback mechanism is harmful. 

General Plans: 

    Synbio part is to engineer the biofilm producing bacteria and give it a competetive edge. 

    Need to work out specifics. 

Rapid Test Kit (New Idea): 

    To differentiate between COViD-19, Influenza, Common Cold. 

    These have similar symptoms, but exact differentiation is difficult. 

    Cov and Flu have been differentiated already, the challenge is to incorporate common cold (due to multiple pathogens causing it) '_ 

    Maybe extend to other bacterial diseases with similar symptoms. 

    Relevant resources need to be uploaded. 

    Suggestion: Contact CeNSE (they designed some bio-sensor thing) 

    The synbio is to design the relevant detector paratopes for the various epitopes of the cold viruses. 

Work-Division: 

    Endometriosis: 

    See if charge is viable for SLNs 

    Exact mass needs to be found 

    Sequence of fusion protein 

    Biofilms: Continue online 

    Testing Kit: Continue online 

FEEL FREE TO PITCH IN IDEAS! FEEL FREE TO CONTACT PEOPLE IF YOU NEED TO TALK ABOUT SPECIFICS, NEED TO DISCUSS THINGS! 