Meeting8, 18032023 

Endometriosis (new approach) 

    Refer to presentation for details 

    Uses aptides, targets EDB of fibronectin 

    Low dissociation constant 

    AA sequence known 

    Anti-IL-8 antibody improves inflammation and fibrosis in endometriosis 

    Method I uses LNPs, to pack mRNA 

    Advantages: 

    Negligible immunogenic adverse reactions 

    mRNA gets degraded so doesn't cause a long-lasting effect 

    Method II: Conjugation 

    Conjugate aptide to IL-8 

    Dry lab is to attached the aptide to the antibody so as to prevent loss of function of antibody and aptide 

    Feasibility: 

    We can get the aptide sequence from known retailers 

    We have the gene for the IL-8 antibody 

    Worst case, we don't get the aptide, we just synthesize synthetically it, conjugate, and so on 

    We can only do in vitro tests 

    Dry Lab: 

    Docking 

    Pharmacokinetic studies 

@Aditya, please look into the following Q/A parts 

Question: Synbio part of this? 

    Designing the mRNA, or in worst case even synthesize the aptide. That's synbio. 

Question: Can we do it in yeast? 

    Haven't seen it yet, as production of mRNA is generally optimized in bacteria. 

Question: What if someone else does it? 

    Can't do anything lol, who cares 

Question: Will in vitro be convincing enough? 

    I mean. 

Question: Rough timeline? 

    Not sure, but six months should be enough. There's not a lot of things here that can go wrong. 

Question: Just do the mRNA design, not the delivery part? 

    The project works best once everything is put together because the mRNA synthesis isn't all that unique, but the idea as a whole, and the specific targeting part is. 

We try to finalize by next week, but also, divide the entire team in two in which one keeps brainstorming for a contigency plan. 

Biofilms 

    Again, PPT uploaded on Teams. 

    We'll use B. subtilis instead of E. coli 

    Gram-positive, better for protein production 

    Highly efficient protein secretion 

    Uses compQXPA quorum sensing 

    Kill switches already ready 

    Kill switch 

    B-TOX system of TU Darmstadt 

    Going beyond a certain threshold cell density triggers the kill switch 

    Uses 2 promoters 

    BaKillus Kill Switch 

    Uses two proteins that is stimulated simultaneously (one fixes holes, the other makes them, initially there's an equilibrium, preventing cell death) 

    In case of QS inhibition, the 'fixer' stops and the other protein leads to cell death 

    Potential proteins have been identified 

    Destroying EPS Matrix is primary goal of the project 

    Also, involves small molecule inhibition and so on 

    Dry lab has been done previously, so models exist 

    Wet Lab includes confirming dry-lab simulations 

    Biobricks have been found already, need to look into more 

    Also, the kill switch can be directly involved into the genome, so survives for 150+ generations. 

Question: Is PNAG the only component of EPS matrix? If not, won't there be resistance? 

    No. PNAG is just a 'major' component of EPS matrix. However, we target the non-living matrix only, so the resistance will take time to develop. But yeah, may need to look into longer-term cures. 

    Also, ~90% of virulent bacteria (our primary targets) have PNAG as major biofilm components. 

Question: Has any other team implemented this idea completely? 

    Pasteur team came pretty close, even completed the first part of its project. It's just that their final results on other components weren't conclusive. 

Question: Is 150 generations enough? 

    150 is actually research standards 

Pointer: 

    Need to look into specific proteins and their relevant BioBricks. 

    Need to emphasize the synbio part. 

Ciao. 