Meeting3, 2802023 

Project Pitch to Professor (Exosome Idea): 

    Prof thinks it's a "cool idea." 

    Advice: Search for another cell line except human endometrial cell lines that works for our idea. 

    So, we plan to find another compatible cell line in the upcoming days. Prof is willing to link us to relevant people. 

    Questions to answer over the next few days: 

    What qualifies as a compatible cell line? (apparently mouse cell lines are good) 

    Find out if the miRNA is secreted in another cell line at all and how it works. 

    Or alternatively, we have to find another miRNA that inhibits secretions. 

TL;DR: Nothing fundamentally wrong with the idea, need to find alternative cell line though. 

General Pointers: 

    Some people need to focus and work on current ideas, others need to look for newer ones. 

    On having an idea, kindly make a presentation or a word file detailing it. 

Microplastic Degradation and Conversion to Bioactive Molecules: 

    Has two main parts: 

    Selecting microplastics to work on: 

    We check what microplasts. are degradable: PET, PP and PS are a few examples. 

    Plan to work with MPs in water. 

    Need to accumulate and degrade the MPs. 

    Meshes are required for aggregating the MPs. 

    Converting end-products of degradation to bio-active molecules: 

    Need to work more on this. Requires assay to be developed first. 

    We need to work on designing the assays required for the degradation. Enzymes need to be modified to work on MPs and then there's the part where we convert the degraded stuff to bio-active supplements that have potentially therapeutic, pharmaceutical uses, etc. 

Potentially requires a lot of lab-work. 

Do we need to build a mesh? 
Meshes have been made, but the main part is to make a mesh that works in the environment where we're working. 
Suggestions are to procure the MPs from areas and then work on the procured ones for the second part of the project. 

Where are the enzymes obtained from? 
Primarily from a few bacteria. There are a few potential enzyme candidates. 

    Need to consult and look for relevant professors. 

    Meshes do not necessarily need to made, but need to atleast come up with a rough idea of how the meshes can be made for potential industrial applications. 

Refer to uploaded slides and documents for a comprehensive overview. 

PARP Inhibitors: 

    Really expensive anti-cancer compounds. 

    Very new topic, compatible naturally-found compounds have been uncovered. 

    Can potentially make the drugs very inexpensive. 
    TL;DR: Don't work on this idea. Involves toxic compounds, beyond our scope. 

Complement Proteins: 

    To tackle deficiency of complement proteins in immune system. 

    Again, really expensive drug. 

    No human practices as such because it tackles an extremely rare condition. 

    Relatively negligible motivation to follow this idea as it has extremely limited scope. 

Suggestion: Find out which component makes the drug expensive and try to create the necessary bio-active molecules using the microplastic degradation idea. 

RFVIIa: 

    Currently on-hold, as a fallback idea. 

    Again, designing the required vector itself is a project. 

Work Division: 

    Exosomes: Mayank, Sohaan, Vyaas, Balls, Isha, Sidak 

    Contacting Drug-Delivery Lab: Yukta, Sanika 

    Microplastics: Sahoo, Raisa, Shloak, Sheersh, Shravani, Rujuta, Sanjana 

    New Ideas: Everyone 

    Kindly don't read entire research papers. Read the abstract and conclusions to get an idea of the thing. 

    We STOP searching for ideas by next Tuesday (07/03/2023). 

    Hopefully finalize an idea by 11/02/2023. 

Relevant Professors: 

    Exosomes: Subba Rao Gangi Setty 

    RFVIIa: Jayanta Chatterjee 

    Microplastics: searching 