Meeting4, 03032023 

Open Day Human Practices: 

    Done, as of 06/03/2023. 

Exosomes: 

    (maybe) Shift focus from exosome to lipid nanoparticles 

    But lipid nanoparticles aren't exactly syn-bio, so we need to find some syn-bio based process 

    Need specific target protein in endometrium 

    Good option available ---(max miRNA production) 

    MMP10: produced expressly in endometrium, can be a good option 

    Not verified yet though 

    MMP26: localization not found 

    Exosome author mailed regarding specifics of target protein 

    WhatsApp Image 2023-03-06 at 12.16.49.jpg 

    ^miR-214 is probably a good candidate 

Idea Recap: 

    Endometriosis has 2 cures: 

    Hormonal: Outdated and increased chances of cancer 

    Surgical: Obvious risks involved, tissue removal not possible in case of highly invasive endometriosis. 

    Factors have been found that prevent fibrosis (a major issue of endometriosis) 

    These are good for relapse (that often occur after excision) 

    In this field targeting is novel and the pathway hasn't been used. 

    The system for targeting has been figured out (lamp2b) 

    Issue with IISc is that we don't have the originally targeted cell line, but there are alternate pathways 

    Drug delivery prof thinks solid lipid nanoparticles are a better idea 

    You have a non-cellular environment 

    So, no cell line needed 

Biofilms 

    Any microbe in living systems undegoes layer sedimentation 

    This reduces efficacy of anti-biotics 

    Leads to mutation 

    ^These are just a few obvious issues 

    So, the idea uses proteases: 

    Positive protease: 

    It helps bacteria invade organisms 

    Gives it to host organ as reverse action 

    Negative protease: 

    Produces something to destroy the film 

    Inhibits other steps of film production 

    Enzymes attack mostly extracellular polymeric substances (which have high resistance) 

    Many papers on different approaches available 

    Suggestion: check if good bacteria get affected too. 

Drug-Delivery Lab 

    Engineer a lipid nanoparticle that attaches to specific ligands 

    Professors present in IISc 

    Advantage: No cell lines needed 

    undecipherableconversationsoccur 

Updates: 

    Mailed the Dean. Again, same deadlines: 11/03 is the last date for final idea. 

    Work on backup ideals will be minimum thereafter. 

    Backup #1: RFVIIa, Backup #2: Biofilms 

    Microplastic team to work on biofilms now. 

    To learn certain essential techniques from PI and their PhDs eventually. 

    Issues: 

    Figuring out specific proteins 

    If using SLNs involves synbio 

    Viable cell line. 

    Excess people can start working with human practices 

    Start finding relevant people, impact on diseases, etc 

    On reaching a concensus for the final idea, start figuring out a rough estimate for budgets 

Modelling: 

    Check out microfluidic chips (allow you to make fluid channels within capillaries) 

    Check out iGEM page for medal criteria and the 2019-20 team's site. 

    Need three major teams: wet lab, dry lab, human practices 

Ciao! 