Meeting10, 28032023 

Biofilms 

    Obviously, eveything's in the PPTs. 

Question: Why do we need to inhibit quorum sensing? 

    Let's say we have our own biofilm and some other bacteria tries to build it's own biofilm (on top of ours), so then we inhibit them. 

Question: So, why do want to inhibit only a few bacteria? 

    We are targeting just a few specific areas where gram negative bacteria are populous. So, there we use our quorum sensing inhibition. 

Question: So, but scalability might be an issue? 

    See, in those cases, we'll try to attack just common pathways that cover most bacteria, not all. But yeah, we need to look into it more. 

Question: Is targeting the quorum sensing the only way to attack incoming bacteria? 

    As far as we've gone, there are obviously a few more methods but inhibiting quorum sensing turns out to be the most efficacious method. 

Question: Will dry lab models need input from wet labs? 

    Yeah, something regarding kill switch and its survivability under shear stress. 

Pointers: 

    Maybe try to make signals (showing let's say, the expiry date of a biomaterial) instead of attacking incoming bacteria? 

    Work out how your desired proteins are going to travel out of the dense matrix. 

    Verify the kill switch idea yourselves, not just put together literature. 

    Genetic engineering will probably make up the major part of the project. 

    Look into specific protein production/diffusion literature. 

    Model the kill switch and make a genetic circuit and stuff. 

    Start learning dry labs and wet labs. 

    Maybe narrow out your list of biomaterials on which you'll apply the biofilms. 

    Important people: 

    Deepshika 

    Samay Pandey 

    Shantanu Shukla 

    Deepa Aghashe (NCBS) For wet lab 

    Sandeep Krishna (NCBS) For dry lab 

    Amitesh Anand (TIFR) 

    Most importantly: 

    Will you be able to incorporate the genetic sequence for producing bactericides? 

    Will the said protein/material be able to cross out of the matrix. 

    Pros: 

    Lots of dry lab scope relating to tranport, biofilm growth/decay 

    Has scope in general, as the biofilm itself may provide mechanical protection at the very least. 

    Models for protein diffusion and production 

    Substantial progress can be made within our restricted time frame 

TL;DR: Don't give up on the idea lol 

Endometriosis: 

    Check the slides. 

    Our main synbio part is to assemble the entire lipid packed with mRNA 

Question: Are there demerits to the in-vitro packaging? 

    As far as we know, in vitro is slower and prone to some errors. 

Question: What errors? 

    Need to look into them more. 

Pointers: 

    Make a rough timeline. 

    Talk to professors and relevant people for the entire LNP production process so that you atleast have a protocol to follow. 

    Make sure you have access to relevant facilities because you'll deal with some microfluidic properties. 

Pros: 

    Tons of stuff to learn with organic chemistry and bioengineering in LNP production 

General pointers: 

    This week is when you'll have an almost finalized idea 

    Finalize positively by next week 

    Figure out the skills you require to work on the projects 

    There's tons of scope in the dry labs for both ideas, exploit that fact 

Ciao! 